hi this is pressure Locker this riddle
is a logic puzzle and it assumes that
the characters can reason with absolute
precision so pay attention to the
details of the story Alice and Bob are
trapped by an evil logician in their
cells
Alice can see exactly 12 trees and Bob
can see exactly eight trees they're told
that together they can see all the trees
in the prison but that no tree is seen
by both people neither person knows how
many trees the other person sees every
day the logician visits Alice in her
cell in the morning and asked are there
eighteen or twenty trees in total if
Alice knows the answer she can say but
if she doesn't know then she's going to
pass in that case the logician then goes
visits Bob in his cell and then asked
the same question if Bob knows he can
give the answer otherwise he also is
going to pass if they both pass then the
same process is repeated the next day
now at some point they're gonna want to
guess because they don't want to keep
passing and staying in prison forever
however if either person doesn't know
and they guess incorrectly then they're
both going to be imprisoned forever if
either person does know and guesses
correctly then they're both going to be
set free immediately now they can't
communicate with each other the number
of trees that they see but the question
is can they do better than random chance
can they do better than just guessing
eighteen or twenty if they both
understand the rules of the game can
they escape and reason their way out
with certainty give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching the
video for the solution so at first it
seems impossible Alice just sees twelve
trees so she doesn't know if they're
eighteen or twenty trees and Bob Willie
sees eight trees so he doesn't know if
they're eighteen or twenty trees and it
doesn't seem like they can ever figure
it out because all they see is the
number of trees in front of them however
what happens is that each day when they
give an answer that actually conveys
information to the other person so let's
start out on day one when alice is asked
the question do you see eighteen or
twenty trees
if she saw 19 or 20 trees she could
exclude the answer of 18 and she could
actually conclude that there were 20
trees well Alice does see is she only
sees 12 trees so she has to pass however
the fact that she passes actually
conveys to Bob that Alice is not seeing
19 or 20 trees she actually sees at most
18 trees so this information gets
conveyed to Bob if Bob only saw 0 or 1
trees knowing that Alice saw at most 18
trees Bob could conclude that there were
18 trees however Bob sees more than 0-1
trees he actually sees eight trees so
he's not sure if they're 18 or 20 trees
so he's gonna want to pass but the fact
that he passes actually relays the
information to Alice that Alice says all
right logically Bob must not have seen 0
or 1 trees he must have seen at least 2
trees so we've actually gained some
information on the fact that each person
has passed on day 1 and this information
can be built upon on day 2 now Alice
knows that Bob sees at least two trees
so if Alice saw 17 or 18 trees she would
actually know that there would have to
be 20 trees however since Alice only
sees 12 trees she once again has to pass
but that conveys to Bob that Bob
realizes all right Alice must not have
seen 17 or 18 trees she must have seen
at most 16 trees knowing this if Bob saw
two or three trees then Bob would
actually be able to say all right there
must be eighteen trees because twenty
trees would not be possible two or three
plus sixteen would never get to twenty
but since Bob sees actually eight trees
he can't exclude that possibility so he
still thinks there could be eighteen or
twenty but because he passes that
conveys information Alice that Bob must
see at least four trees we can continue
the logic for the next day if Bob sees
at least four trees if Alice saw fifteen
or sixteen trees she could exclude the
possibility that there were only
eighteen trees
and she would conclude that there are 20
trees once again Alice only sees 12
trees so she has to pass but the act of
passing actually conveys information
that Bob is saying all right if she
passes on day 3 that means she has to
see at most 14 trees Bob can take that
information and if he saw four or five
trees knowing Alice saw at most 14 then
he would be able to exclude the
possibility of 20 and save there only 18
trees but once again Bob sees eight
trees so he's gonna pass and that
conveys information that Alice is all
right Bob must have seen at least six
trees otherwise he would have said there
were 18 this brings us to day four will
rican tin you the logic if Alice saw
only 13 or 14 trees knowing Bob saw at
least 6 then she would be able to
exclude 18 and say there must be 20
trees but since Alice only sees 12 trees
she's going to pass once again and that
conveys information to Bob that Alice
sees at most 12 trees so Valles saw at
most 12 trees and he saw 6 or 7 he would
be able to exclude 20 and say there must
be 18 trees since he sees eight trees he
has to pass and that conveys to Alice
that Bob must see at least eight trees
and now we actually get to the result in
day five Alice knows that she sees 12
trees and Bob sees at least eight trees
so she can exclude the possibility of 18
trees she can conclude there must be 20
trees in total so on day five in the
morning Alice says there are 20 trees
she is correct and they are both set
free forever did you figure it out
thanks for watching this video please
subscribe to my channel and make videos
on math and game theory you can catch me
on my blog mind your decisions which you
can follow on Facebook Google+ and
patreon you can catch me on social media
at pressure Walker and if you liked this
video please check out my books there
are links in the video description